It cannot be diluted. It is an undiluted state. It is like sealed and can't be diluted or can't be
changed by the conceptions, by the duality mind.
That is what is known as Ja, Seel, S-E-A-L, Seel. And what is the tempo in this case? Because this
technique is not taught by the Grecian teacher, Buddha Shakti Aguni, in other teachings,
such as the foundation teachings of Buddhism or the Hinayana teachings, Satramayana teachings.
This teaching is not taught by Buddha in the outer tender teaching, only in the inner tender
teaching, but therefore it is known as the Great.
It is a great teaching which is not taught in other teachings, except in the inner tender teachings
.
So that is the word meaning of that.
Then, again, I told our visit Dzochen meaning. What means Dzochen? And of course, I am sure many of
you already know that.
But Dzochen is a very old, again, Dzochen, G-Z-O-G and Dzoc and C-H-E and Dzochen. So that is Dzoc
hen.
And what is Dzochen in Sanskrit? In the teaching said, "Maha-sindhi." "Maha" means say, like Maham
udra. "Sindhi" means completions.
"Maha" or great completions. Great completions. So that is.
Or sometimes also translated Maha-sindhi and Ati. "Maha-ati." In Ati what that means? The great
observing status.
The ultimate big P-E-A-K. Big of the ultimate state of the observing.
All the namgya or the great namgya or the one that becomes the great familiar of the true nature,
there is nothing more go beyond that.
That is the ultimate state of the discovery of the nature. So Ati. Ati. So that is what really the
word meaning or word of the Dzochen.
Now I go to the word meaning what means the great completion. Complete. Great. Of completion first.
Dzoc. Dzoc.
Because in the teaching said, it is complete with what is Dzochen, with nature again.
Nature. Nature of the mind. One's own awareness. Nature of the mind. Everything is complete within
the nature of the mind.
Samsara is completed in the nature of the mind. Narayana is completed in the nature of the mind.
So all is both Samsara and Narayana are completed in the mind. Everything at foundational level or
basic levels.
Then in the educational level or the practice level and both accumulation merit, worst merit are
all complete within the nature of the mind.
So two merits are complete within the nature of the mind.
Then ultimate level, result level or achievement level or the two forms of the enlightenment is
completed.
Which means what is it? Two kyas. Two kyas in Sanskrit world and the ability of Dzochen.
All the three kyas we say that all is completed within the nature of the mind.
Or within the Rupa state. So nothing is not complete within this teaching. Everything is complete.
For that reason, then it is called Dzochen. Completion.
And sometimes translated as perfections or great perfect.
Because again, if we think of the perfect level, then everything within the Rupa is perfect.
Nothing is missed out. Everything is perfectly completed. Everything within that state.
And then Chimpu, meanwhile, in the teaching, said that there is nothing higher realization and
bigger realization and better realization
then they discover our own inner nature or our Rupa. For that reason, it is called Dzochen.
So now, what about Mahamudra and Dzochen? The reality level, both are pointing to the nature of the
mind.
So there is nothing. There is no difference between the nature of the mind.
So it is the same. Same. There is no difference. For that reason, it is union.
It is union. It is not just a great mass, a king of karmachami, mad union.
Also a master is mad union. It is union. It is together. It is inseparable.
It is just different terminologies and different techniques to discover.
But the reality, the discover is the same thing. So that is really the basic meaning of the union
of the Mahamudra and Dzochets.